# Vision - 6/20/25

**Midwit** is a quarterly print and digital magazine around protocols, games, rituals, and tools for the AI era. One way to think about it is as a magazine of criticism and practice around an art form, and a culture, that does not yet exist. Another way to think about it is as a magazine about interface design, in all the potential meanings of that term.

It combines elements of the [*Whole Earth Catalog*](https://monoskop.org/images/7/78/The_Essential_Whole_Earth_Catalog_1986.pdf), [early *Wired*](https://www.chrbutler.com/2023-06-11), [Erowid](https://www.erowid.org/), and [early video game magazines](https://archive.org/details/pc-gamer-issue-081-february-2001/page/n127/mode/2up).

It is also an excuse for hosting weird, genre-bending parties (issue launches) and cohering an era-defining tech & art scene in New York.

You could, finally, think of it as a set of answers to the question of what to do with unprecedented abundance—how to enjoy it, and how to survive it. We think this is one of the most vital questions of our time. 

The founding editors are [Andrew Blevins](https://andrewshadeblevins.com/) and [Jason Ganz](https://substack.com/@jasonganz532442). 

**Interest Cloud**

Human-computer interaction, nondual meditation, Vajrayana Buddhism, finite & infinite games, AI alignment, American pragmatism, psychogenic design, collective sensemaking, Pochinko clowning, decentralized education, modern rituals, life-affirming spiritual practice, Christopher Alexander, taking children seriously, taking play seriously,  weird parties, social fabric, the meaning crisis, embodied computing, cognitive prosthetics, cyborgism, the early East Coast psychedelics scene, Marshall McLuhan, Jacques Tati, memetics, horror, Kegan stages, David Chapman, Stewart Brand, Dynamicland, small group aesthetics, cultural evolution, experience design, road trips, high weirdness, etc. etc. etc.

## Sections

The magazine could have the following **"rubrics,"** or sections:

### **"Demos"**

Games, apps, interfaces. Compare to the demo disc that used to come with video game magazines. These are experimental protocols that push interaction—human-computer or human-human or human-other—in novel directions.

Over time and with sufficient funding, Midwit will provide increasing editorial support for developing projects, using best practices in LLM evals and the (likely) new profession of cognitive engineering. Contributors benefit both from distribution and from a process that improves their work.

We will probably use QR codes printed in the magazine to distribute demos, but if anyone has a better idea, we’re open. 

### **"Lifeforms"**

Critical appreciations, disappreciations, recommendations, and phenomenological reports—happenings, immersive theater, clown shows, sadhanas, the weird phenomenological effects of prolonged LLM use, paeans to dying industries. The focus here is on what is coming into being, and what is going out of being. Holding beauty before it dies, touching something nascent before it becomes form. Energetic field readings. Culture reporting. Ideally lots of photographs paired with the essays.

### **"Manual"**

Practical section, teach the reader how to do something. How do I run an LLM on my phone, and why would I want to? How can I create an info agent to filter my information sources? What's an MCP server and why should I care? How do I make the most of a solo MDMA trip? Etc. Compare to sections of the *Whole Earth Catalog*.

### **“Voice to Text”**

Interviews with inspiring people. Compare to *The Paris Review* interviews with poets and writers. Carefully conducted, edited, deeper and more careful than a podcast conversation. **People who come to mind:**

- Stewart Brand
- Alan Kay
- Bret Victor
- Charlie Awbery
- David Chapman
- Misha Glouberman
- John Vervaeke
- The Folk Computing guys

### **"Artifacts"**

Interesting outputs of stochastic computing. Fleeting, ephemeral, recontextualized. Compare to Harper's Magazine's "Readings" section. Jailbreaks, machine poetry, snippets of dialogue.

### **Features**

The heart of the magazine. Likely mostly cultural criticism, reporting, and science writing, but the gates are wide for now. **Example essays we have in mind:**

- Considering Stewart Brand's impact on the culture and his relevance to this moment, with an emphasis on the New Games Movement
- The practice and significance of LLM evals as the primary site where human agency interacts with powerful AI systems
- Essay examining the recent resurgence of clowning in American urban culture, its possible relationship to cultural atomism & predictions of neofeudalism
- Nathan Fielder's *The Rehearsal* as a case study in David Chapman's meta-rationality
- The historical lineage behind Folk Computing (Dynamicland etc.), the promise of embodied computing, and why does it keep not happening
- Why David Allen's Getting Things Done is a good system for bootstrapping Kegan stage development
- Someone should probably synthesize Tibetan Buddhist demonology with vasocomputation with reports that Internal Family Systems practitioners tend to converge on the view that demons (“parts” that actually hate you & are evil) are ontologically real

### **Book Reviews**

We’ll probably want them. Not clear yet how prominent they’ll be.

### **Fiction**

Science fiction or fiction that treats our present moment as science fiction or weird fiction. Probably not a core section, might come in later issues. AI-generated fiction a possibility here. No autofiction.

## Money

Currently we are funding this out of our own pockets. Our goal is to be able to pay ourselves and the people who work with us on this project, including contributors and staff, and to rent an office somewhere in Brooklyn.

In the current media environment, nearly all good magazines are funded on a patronage model. There is plenty of precedent for this in tech especially. Venkatesh Rao’s [Summer of Protocols](https://summerofprotocols.com/) occupies similar territory to ours and is funded by the Ethereum Foundation. [Real Life](https://reallifemag.com/) magazine (which Andrew wrote for once upon a time) was funded by Snapchat. [Logic(s)](https://logicmag.io/) is funded by the Ford and MacArthur Foundations. Outside of tech, *Harper’s Magazine* (where Andrew also worked) is paid for mostly by its owner and publisher Rick MacArthur, which is what allows it to be one of very few great national print magazines.

We plan to create an organization called the Context Appreciation Society, which will be responsible for funding Midwit alongside a few other connected cultural endeavors. This roughly follows the model of *n+1, The Point*, and other successful magazines run by small staffs.

We’ll also make some money selling tickets to events.

We have a fairly large number of connections we think might be interested in supporting an interesting, high-integrity, prosocial cultural project in this space. We haven’t pitched them yet. If you’re seeing this and would like to invest in this project or have ideas for funding models email Andrew: [andrew.s.blevins@gmail.com](mailto:andrew.s.blevins@gmail.com).

As Midwit becomes an influential conduit for AI development, interfaces, and new tech, we expect it to seed a number of significant early investment opportunities. These too can be used to support the magazine.